---
title: Poster presented at QBI 2020 by Diamond B24 collaborators
category: blog
image: qbi.PNG
tag: Selected Poster
visibility: public
layout: post
---
My collaborators from the Diamond Light Source got their poster accepted at the Quantitative Bio Imaging conference. 

## Contents
{:.no_toc}

* Table of Contents
{:toc}

## Abstract

Leveraging Molecular and Cellular Fiducial Markers for Correlative Bio-Imaging , by Chidinma Adanna Okolo, Ilias Kounatidis, Thomas M Fish, Perrine Paul-Gilloteaux, Ian M Dobbie, Maria Harkiolaki
from the Diamond Light Source UK and Department of Biochemistry, University of Oxford, United Kingdom.


Beamline B24 is the biological correlative cryo-imaging beamline at the UK synchrotron Diamond
Light Source, delivering 3D soft X-ray imaging and structured illumination fluorescence imaging
of cryopreserved biological materials such as cells and tissues to nanometer resolution. Our
unique, semi-automated and user-friendly correlative microscopy workflow offers unambiguous 
multidimensional localisation of biomolecules within the cellular suprastructure and is available 
to the scientific community via a peer-reviewed application process.

Cryo Soft X-ray Tomography (cryo-SXT) 3D data allows the identification and quantification of 
cellular ultrastructure and subcellular organelles. It is used to study the structural effects of 
biological, chemical and mechanical cues on cell populations and provides wide field cellular 
context for data from other imaging modalities such as fluorescence microscopy. At B24,
fluorescence localisation data is provided by the structured illumination super resolution 
fluorescence microscopy method using a bespoke cryo-structured illumination microscope (cryoSIM). The particular attraction of this correlative imaging system is that samples that are due to 
be used for X-ray imaging can be first imaged on the cryoSIM to gather 3D fluorescence 
information at high resolution and identify areas of interest before being taken for cryo-SXT,
thereby allowing for the accumulation of easily correlatable and unambiguous localisation data. 
Effectively, the same cryogenically preserved near-native cell population can now be imaged at 
nanometer resolution through a variety of imaging methods within and beyond the diffraction 
limit of available light sources. The resulting data is not compromised by chemical fixation, 
mechanical milling or slicing, additional staining or sample-to-sample variations and therefore 
allows the unambiguous interpretation of imaging data across modalities to nanometer 
resolution.

Recently, as part of a project to ensure accurate information capture and precise correlation 
across state-of-the-art imaging modalities, we have carried out a comparative study using 
different commercial nanoparticles and bio-trackers for correlation of X-ray and fluorescence 
images. We have analysed size, distribution and contrasting properties of a range of potential 
biomarkers and their relative contribution to correlative analysis of real imaging data. We present 
here a novel biological fiducialisation system, which uses a combination of nanoparticles and 
biomarkers to ensure minimal disruption of physiological cell structures while delivering precise 
correlation of data through an intuitive and user-friendly in silico workflow.

## About the conference

Further information about the conference [here](https://www.quantitativebioimaging.com/qbi2020/).
