---
title: Analysis of mitral valve deformations due to multimodal imaging processes
category: soft
year: 2021
image: rialland.png
type of deliverable: report (Master 1 thesis)
authors: Laetitia Rialland under the supervision of Perrine Paul-Gilloteaux


pdf: https://uncloud.univ-nantes.fr/index.php/s/CDaPXrcqBCw3C5m/download/MEMOIRE_MASTER_VF3008.pdf

layout: post-pub
---
Multimodal imaging enables to mix information of different kinds, for instance morphologic and functional. However, making link between all modalities is not easy, and even more because samples are deformed by preparation process for imaging. Registration is a relevant tool in order to correct deformations, but in order to choose the best transformation, we need to well know and understand deformations and their physical origin. This work focus on two mains goals : development of a standardized and easily available protocol in order to take into account deformations ; application of this protocol in our project looking at the pathophysiological processes of mitral valve prolapse. We have developped several protocols in order to observe deformations in a given workflow : micro-CT, HREM, histology. The first protocol use natural fiducials and is used for first results presented in this work. Two others protocols use external fiducials : pinholes and fluorescent beads. To finish, a last protocol aims to model deformations occurring thanks to software such as Deformetrica and Simple Elastix. Landmark based registration with natural fiducials is possible for some organs that are highly and homogeneously vascularized, which is not (or roughly) the case for heart. Pinholes are interesting for some imaging modalities but need optimization to improve holes regularity. Fluorescent beads are relevant for fluorescent modalities with high resolution. Registration software use is possible but requires the user to well know physical mechanisms leading to deformations, and to have notions in mathematics and computing. Out results with the first protocol highlight the occurrence of deformation. Shrinkage-expansion deformations are large on the ventricular part, while very localised deformations can be seen near to the atria because of a relative displacement of both parts relative to each other. Development of a single standardized protocol in order to estimate deformations seems to be hard regarding unlimited possibilities for imaging processes. A flexible and cheap protocole would be more appropriate. We get results with first protocols but fluorescent beads over a larger number of organs would benefit to our understanding.
